# JSON-configurable Cell-DEVS Hoya model with age-separated population, separation between virulence and susceptibility, deaths, infected capacity, masks, and lockdowns

## Info
This is a modified version of the Hoya model. The original model that this implementation is based off of can be found at:

https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0096300306009295

This implementation adds several features which allow more real-world factors to be accounted for. See the Parameters section for more information.

## Compilation
Note: A C++17 compliant compiler is required, along with the Cadmium JSON library (available at: https://github.com/SimulationEverywhere/cadmium/tree/celldevs-json)
- After setting up the repository, navigate to the "cadmium/" folder inside the reopsitory and switch to the "celldevs-json" branch

Using the Terminal

1. Clone this repository and go to its main directory

2. Run this command on the command line:

```bash
g++ -g -I<path to cadmium>/cadmium/include -I<path to cadmium>/include -I<path to cadmium>/json/single_include -std=c++17 -o hoya ./model/main.cpp ./model/hoya_cell.hpp
```

## Usage
To run a simulation with this model:

1. Compile the executable.

2. Ensure a "../simulation_results/pandemic_hoya_age_json/" directory exists relative to the executable.

3. Create a scenario. An example is shown in the repository's "./config/" folder as "scenario.json"

4. Run the executable from the command line, passing in the filepath to the scenario file. Optionally, you can also pass the maximum number of time steps before the simulation stops (default is 500).

## Visualization
After the simulation has generated its output files, those results need to be transformed into a visualization in order to be interpreted by a human. There are two different visualization methods available:

### Jupyter Notebook
The jupyter notebook script generates graphs of the total Susceptible, Infected, Recovered, and Deceased throughout the entire population over time.

A copy of the script is provided at `/misc/epidemic_plots_from_cd_log_hoya_death_cd_cadmium.ipynb` in this repository.

In order to use the jupyter notebook file:
1. The `output_messages.txt` file generated by the simulation must be moved to the same directory that the script is being run from.
2. Edit the `dim` constant to have the dimensions of the simulation you are trying to visualize (default: 25, 25).
3. Run the script.
4. The graphs should be saved as images in the same directory that the script is being run from.

### WebDEVS viewer
The WebDEVS viewer plays back a record of the simulation and shows the values for each port at every position as time changes.

The WebDEVS viewer can be accessed through the following link: ( https://staubibr.github.io/arslab-prd/app-simple/index.html )
Use of the viewer requires a config file, provided at `/misc/hoya_age.json` in this repository.

In order to use the WebDevs viewer:
1. Edit the `"size"` property inside the config file to match the dimensions of the simulation you are trying to visualize (default: 25, 25, 1).
2. Press the button with the two arrows on the right side of the web viewer.
3. Select `Simulator: Cadmium` and `Type: Cell-DEVS`
4. Drag and drop the `output_messages.txt` file generated by the simulation and the config file into the viewer.
5. Click the "Parse files" button.
6. The simulation can now be viewed. Playback of the simulation can be recorded to a `.webm` file by using the red record button that should now be at the bottom of the screen.

## Parameters

### Populations
- *population* (integer)
	- The total number of people in the cell.
- *susceptible* (array of decimals)
	- The portion of the population which can catch the disease. Each number in the array corresponds to a different age group.
- *infected* (array of decimals)
	- The portion of the population which currently have the disease. Each number in the array corresponds to a different age group.
- *recovered* (array of decimals)
	- The portion of the population which no longer have the disease. Each number in the array corresponds to a different age group.
- *deceased* (array of decimals)
	- The portion of the population which have died. Each number in the array corresponds to a different age group.

### "Transition Factors"
- *susceptibility* (array of decimals)
	- How easily a susceptible person in each age group can be infected by the disease.
- *virulence* (array of decimals)
	- How effective an infected person in each age group is at spreading the disease.
- *recovery* (array of decimals)
	- How quickly an infected person in each age group recovers from the disease.
- *mortality* (array of decimals)
	- How likely an infected person in each age group is to die from the disease.

### Hospital Capacity
- *infected_capacity* (decimal)
	- The portion of the population can be handled as infected before the hospitals run out of space.
- *over_capacity_modifier* (decimal)
	- The mortality increase that is applied when the hospitals don't have enough space to handle the infected population.

### Masks
- *mask_use* (array of decimals)
	- The amount of people in each age group that use masks.
- *mask_virulence_reduction* (decimal)
	- The amount that the virulence rate is reduced to (Eg. a value of 0.3 means that the mask blocks 70% of the outgoing spread).
- *mask_susceptibility_reduction* (decimal)
	- The amount that the susceptibility rate is reduced to (Eg. a value of 0.3 means that the mask blocks 70% of the incoming spread).
- *mask_adoption* (decimal)
	- How much the infected population impacts the number of people who wear masks.

### Lockdowns
- *lockdown_type* (integer)
	- Lockdowns represent a response by the government or population that restricts movement to slow the spread of the disease. There are currently 4 types.

#### Type 0 (no response)
Lockdowns of this type will have no impact on the spread of the disease.

#### Type 1 (scheduled lockdown in phases)
- *lockdown_rates* (array of arrays of decimals)
	- Each array represents a phase, and the decimal values within those arrays represent the impact of that particular phase of the lockdown on the corresponding age group.
- *phase_durations* (array of integers)
	- How long each corresponding phase lasts.
- *disobedience* (array of decimals)
	- The amount of people in each age group that disobey the lockdown rules.

#### Type 2 (continuous reaction to infected)
- *lockdown_rates* (array of decimals)
	- How much each age group is restricted from travel by the lockdown (1.0 is unaffected, 0.0 is most affected).
- *lockdown_adoption* (decimal)
	- How much of an impact the current infected population has on the strength of the lockdown.
- *disobedience* (array of decimals)
	- The amount of people in each age group that disobey the lockdown rules.

#### Type 3 (reaction to infected in phases)
- *lockdown_rates* (array of arrays of decimals)
	- Each array represents a phase, and the decimal values within those arrays represent the impact of that particular phase of the lockdown on the corresponding age group.
- *phase_thresholds* (array of decimals)
	- How long each corresponding phase lasts.
- *threshold_buffers* (array of decimals)
	- How much the infection needs to fall below each phase threshold before the cell will revert to the lower phase.
- *disobedience* (array of decimals)
	- The amount of people in each age group that disobey the lockdown rules.

### Randomness
- *rand_type* (integer)
	- Choose the method for variation in the infection, recovery, and death of new people.

#### Type 0: Static (not random)
This type of distribution is not random and will have no effect on the infection, recovery, and death rates.

#### Type 1: Normal Distribution (bell curve)
- *rand_mean* (decimal)
	- The average value that the random factor will be (this should normally be about 1).
- *rand_stddev* (decimal)
	- The standard deviation of the bell curve (values closer to 0 will tend to generate results closer to the average).
- *rand_seed* (decimal)
	- The seed provided to the random generator. The same scenario run with the same seed should generate the same results.

#### Type 2: Uniform Distribution (equal probability)
- *rand_upper* (decimal)
	- The upper bound of the range the random factor can be chosen from.
- *rand_lower* (decimal)
	- The lower bound of the range the random factor can be chosen from.
- *rand_seed* (decimal)
	- The seed provided to the random generator. The same scenario run with the same seed should generate the same results.

#### Type 3: Exponential Distribution (more likely small)
- *rand_avg_occurence_rate* (decimal)
	- Higher values tend to yield results that are more likely to be small.
- *rand_seed* (decimal)
	- The seed provided to the random generator. The same scenario run with the same seed should generate the same results.

## To-Do List
- [ ] Change location of simulation results for main executable to a more convenient place

	- [x] Make the default location a folder within the repository

	- [ ] Add ability to set output location at runtime (?)

- [ ] Include option to disable mask adoption (in response to infected population) and instead use static mask rates

